This is the readme for the model associated with the paper:

Oltedal L, Morkve SH, Veruki ML, Hartveit E 
Patch clamp investigations and compartmental modeling of rod bipolar
axon terminals in an in vitro thin slice preparation of the mammalian
retina.  
J Neurophysiol 97: 1171-1187, 2007

Abstract:

To extend the usefulness of rod bipolar cells for studies of chemical
synaptic transmission, we have performed electrophysiological
recordings from rod bipolar axon terminals in an in vitro slice
preparation of the rat retina. Whole cell recordings from axon
terminals and cell bodies were used to investigate the passive
membrane properties of rod bipolar cells and analyzed with a
two-compartment equivalent electrical circuit model developed by
Mennerick et al. For both terminal- and soma-end recordings,
capacitive current decays were well fitted by biexponential
functions. Computer simulations of simplified models of rod bipolar
cells demonstrated that estimates of the capacitance of the axon
terminal compartment can depend critically on the recording location,
with terminal-end recordings giving the best estimates. Computer
simulations and whole cell recordings demonstrated that terminal-end
recordings can yield more accurate estimates of the peak amplitude and
kinetic properties of postsynaptic currents generated at the axon
terminals due to increased electrotonic filtering of these currents
when recorded at the soma. Finally, we present whole cell and
outside-out patch recordings from axon terminals with responses evoked
by GABA and glycine, spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents,
voltage-gated Ca2+ currents, and depolarization-evoked reciprocal
synaptic responses, verifying that the recorded axon terminals are
involved in normal pre- and postsynaptic relationships. These results
demonstrate that axon terminals of rod bipolar cells are directly
accessible to whole cell and outside-out patch recordings, extending
the usefulness of this preparation for detailed studies of pre- and
postsynaptic mechanisms of synaptic transmission in the CNS.

Usage:

Either auto-launch from ModelDB or download and extract the archive
and compile the mod files (use mknrndll on windows, nrnivmodl in
linux/unix, or drag and drop the oltedal folder onto the mknrndll icon
under mac os x).  To start the model double click on the mosinit.hoc
icon under windows, type "nrngui mosinit.hoc" under linux/unix, or
drag and drop the mosinit.hoc file onto the nrngui icon under mac os
x.


Once the model is running you can either press the create fig10a
button or explore and use the model with the graphical interface.

